
logo
HOME
BOOK DEMO
Using Document Generator software
 
EDocGen PDF and Word document generator
Create documents from Databases, Applications, XML, Excel, JSON, and Web forms
Use your existing Word and PDF templates for generating business documents such as proposals, letters, invoices, etc.

Use existing MS Word or PDF templates.
Built for business users. Generate documents by populating data from
SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MongoDB, etc. databases.
Enterprise applications such as Salesforce, Workday.
XML/JSON/Excel data.
The system auto-generates fillable forms from templates. Internal and external users can fill these forms to generate documents.
Generate documents in PDF, Word, HTML, or Image format.
You can download generate documents or send them by email, print, sync to cloud storage, or E-Sign.

document generator

The system is business-user friendly. Follow these steps for document generation and distribution.

 STEP 1 : Add Tags & Upload Template
To upload your existing template into the system

Mark the dynamic fields in your PDF or Word templates
Upload that template into the system
 
1.1: Word and PDF Templates - Add Tags










DIY Template Creation: EDocGen supports the dynamic population of text, tables, images, paragraphs, hyperlinks, and reusable content blocks, etc. Each one has a distinct tag. For more details on tag notations, check the help guide.

For Word template, add dynamic tags directly by opening it in MSWord editor
For fillable PDF, add the dynamic fields in fillable sections, as shown below.

fillable PDF Document Generation
For read-only PDF, open it in Adobe editor or your favorite editor and add tags, similar to the Word template.


The image on left is a sample template, containing dynamic tags for text, images, tables, loops (inside the table), etc.
 1.2: Upload Template

Word and PDF Template Upload: Upload DOCX/PDF templates by clicking the 'Upload a template' button at the right-top on the Template screen. It opens a pop-up to drag-and-drop/select the template from the local machine.

Permissions: You can also select which roles can access this template. Only authorized personnel can create documents from this template.

Folders: While uploading a template, you can choose the folder for that template.

 STEP 2: Data to Documents
After uploading your template into the EDocGen document generator, now it's time to generate documents from it. The tool offers several options to automate document generation.

Option 1: Autofill templates with data files (Excel/XML/JSON) for the bulk generation.
Option 2: Use system-generated data capture forms (web forms) for document creation.
Option 3: Batch generation of documents from SQL Server/Oracle/MySQL/MongoDB databases.








Click on the 'Generate' button against the desired template. This opens a pop-up for data population options.


For XML/JSON/Excel: The population of Exel/XML/JSON is a three-step process. In the first step, upload the file. In the second step map the template dynamic fields to data headers. Finally, in the third step, enter the file name. You can choose to prefix the file name with one of the dynamic field values for easy identification of files.

For Form Input: The webform option has two steps. In the first step, input the dynamic values in the form. In the second step, enter the file name and click generate. The fillable form is suited for creating a single document. You can share the form URL and "invite" your customers and vendors to fill it.
 
 
 
 
 STEP 3: Document Distribution

Email: The system auto-sends generated documents to the contact email present on the respective documents. You can configure to send them from your business email using SendGrid, Office 365, GSuite, and SES.

E-Sign: The E-Sign framework allows you to send generated documents to the E-Sign provider of choice.

Cloud Storage: Sync generated documents to cloud storage providers such as Google Drive, SharePoint, etc.,

Print: Generates a single print-ready file.


 EDocGen Document Generator

It is the best solution for fast, accurate, and secure document creation. It is hosted on Google Cloud Platform and all documents generated by the software are protected with strong encryption and authentication. All data files get deleted after document generation.

Integrate with REST API for automating document generation and distribution.

Excel: Say goodbye to tedious limited functionality mail merge. Merge vertical & horizontal orientation of excel data, many to one mail merge, multiple tables, dynamic images, content blocks into document templates

XML: XML is the universal standard for data interchange and often you find a need to merge XML data into Word/PDF document template. It is the easiest way to merge your XML data into the document template

JSON: Almost all databases allow you to export database data in JSON format. It is the perfect solution to auto-fill JSON data into document templates.

Web-Forms: EDocGen auto-generates fillable form from PDF and word template for entering dynamic fields’ values. Filling documents through this approach improves productivity by 70-80%. Fill it once, and the system populates all multiple occurrences of any field in the document. There is also an option to save it as a draft.

Integrations: Use API and Zapier integration for connecting to thousands of applications including databases, online forms, Spreadsheet apps, etc. to automate document generation and delivery.


Say goodbye to typos, misplaced or lost information, and blank fields. EDocGen online document generator is built to make sure you produce precise and pristine documents every single time. Register to see document generator in action.

© 2019-23 - edocgen LLC, All Rights Reserved Terms of Use / Privacy

